(DOCSP-45011) Run a Command (#70)
mongodb/docs-cpp: source/run-command.txt

.. cpp-run-command:

=============
Run a Command
=============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to run a database command with the
{+driver-short+}. You can use database commands to perform a variety of
administrative and diagnostic tasks, such as fetching server statistics,
initializing a replica set, or running an aggregation pipeline.

.. important:: Prefer Driver Methods to Database Commands

   The driver provides wrapper methods for many database commands.
   We recommend using driver methods instead of executing database
   commands when possible.
   
   To perform administrative tasks, use the :mongosh:`MongoDB Shell </>`
   instead of the {+driver-short+}. Calling the ``db.runCommand()``
   method inside the shell is the preferred method to issue database
   commands, as it provides a consistent interface between the shell and
   drivers.

Execute a Command
-----------------

To run a database command, call the ``run_command()`` execution method on a ``mongocxx::database`` instance 
and pass in a document that specifies the command and any relevant arguments. 

> The method will return the result of the command that was run as a ``bsoncxx::document::value`` object. 

Reviewer: Remove future-tense and passive voice
```suggestion
The method returns the result of the command as a ``bsoncxx::document::value`` object. 
```

                                          ..., 
                                          { "resource" : { "db" : "", "collection" : "" }, "actions" : [ ... ] }
        ] 
      }, 
         "ok" : 1 
      }

Response
--------

The ``run_command()`` method returns a ``bsoncxx::document::value`` object that contains
the response from the database after the command has been executed. Each
database command performs a different function, so the response content
can vary across commands. However, every response contains documents
with the following fields:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 70

   * - Field
     - Description

   * - <command result>
     - Provides fields specific to the database command. For example,
       ``count`` returns the ``n`` field and ``explain`` returns the
       ``queryPlanner`` field.

   * - ``ok``
     - Indicates whether the command has succeeded (``1``)
       or failed (``0``).

   * - ``operationTime``
     - Indicates the logical time of the operation. MongoDB uses the
       logical time to order operations.
       
       To learn more about logical time, see our :website:`blog post about

>        the Global Logical Clock </blog/post/transactions-background-part-4-the-global-logical-clock>`.

Reviewer: This link goes to the transactions page of the Server manual instead of a blog post. I would suggest rewording this if the transactions page is what you're trying to link to, or correct the link to point to the blog post

Author: Ah, it looks like the original blog post is either no longer up or no longer accessible. (A post called **Transactions Background Part 4: The Global Logical Clock**). I removed this link from the page.
